Week of Jan 27 (#245)
xregistry/spec: core/spec.md

In the remainder of this specification, in particular when defining the
attributes of the Registry entities, the terms "document view" or "API view"
will be used to indicate whether the serialization of the entity in a response
is meant for use as a stand-alone document or as part of a REST API message
exchange. The most notable differences are that in document view:

- References (e.g. URLs) between entities within responses will use relative
  references rather than absolute ones. This is an indication to tooling that
  the entity in question can be found within the current document and does not
  need an additional HTTP `GET` to retrieve it.
- Duplicate data will be removed. In particular, Resources will not include

>   attributes from the "default" Version as part of its serialization. This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  attributes from the "default" Version as part of their serialization. This is
```

(Or change "Resources" to "a Resource".

Author: done - went with "their"

  [RFC 1738](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1738).

All relative URIs and URLs that reference entities within the Registry MUST
begin with `/`. With the exception of `xid` values, relative URIs/URLs that
reference entities that are part of a document view `GET` response (`?doc`

> is enabled), MUST be relative to the path specified on the request. Relative

Reviewer: I don't understand this... if it's meant to be "relative to the path" why would it start with a "/"?

My understanding is:

- If the URL begins with a "/", it's an absolute *path*, but relative to the originating server
- If a URL *doesn't* begin with a "/" then it's a relative path

So a "relative URL beginning with a `/` but relative to the path specified on the request" sounds like a contradiction in terms to me.

`xid` values MUST be relative to the root of Registry regardless of the path
specified on the request.

For clarity, if a Registry has a Schema Resource at
`/schemagroups/g1/schemas/s1`, then the entity's `self` URL (when serialized
in document view) would change based on the path specified on the `GET`
request:

> | GET Path | `self` URL |

Reviewer: This table makes it clear that yes, there really is a disconnect here between my understanding of relative URLs and what's being stated.

I'm thinking mostly in HTML terms - where if you fetch (say) `http://example.com/myreg/schemagroups/g1/` then link to `/schemas/s1`, that would refer to `http://example.com/schemas/s1`, *not* `http://example.com/myreg/schemagroups/g1/schemas/s1`.

I think it's worth seeing whether other people would have the same expectation as me, or whether I'm just plain wrong and no-one else is going to be confused.

Author: That's why I decided to "hammer the point home" with a table because it's not like normal HTML processing. And it kind of can't be... with a "/" it would mean (as you said) relative to the host/server, which isn't correct since the registry could be hosted on a path, not at the root. W/o a "/" means "relative to this spot in the doc" and in particular (w/o a bunch of ".."s) it's a child. And that doesn't work for non-children paths.

We basically landed at a spot where it's not really that different from normal HTML processing, except instead of "/..." being relative from "the host", since there is no host, it's relative from "the root of the doc". Which, if you think about it isn't too different. I think we just need to find the right words.

Notice, that all relative URLs start with a "/" so there is no "relative to this spot in the tree" concept. 

Any of this make sense?

- Type: URL
- Description: a URL to the default Version of the Resource.

  If the Resource's `hasdocument` aspect set to `true`, then the Version URL
  path MUST include the `$details` suffix, unless `?doc` is enabled and

>   the Version is included in the output, then `$details` is left off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the Version is included in the output, then `$details` is omitted.
```

(Just a tone suggestion.)

Author: done

  - If present, it MUST be a case sensitive `true` or `false`.
  - If present in a request, a value of `null` has the same meaning as
    deleting the attribute, implicitly setting it to `false`.

>   - Since this attribute and `defaultversionid` can impact each other, their

Reviewer: Just a meta comment really... if I were implementing this, I'd have two simultaneous thoughts:

- "I'm really grateful this specified in such a detailed way. I can write tests based on this."
- "Wow, it's really complicated. Does it need to be this complicated?"
